1.Intro to OS
*Different components of OS- process, file, network, main memory, secondary storage, I/O device, security, command interpreter system
*Basic computer organization required for OS- processing unit, memory unit, and input-output devices
*Mobile OS- iOS & Android
 Embedded system OS- computer systems in cars, traffic lights, digital televisions, ATMs, airplane controls, point of sale (PoS) terminals, digital cameras, GPS navigation systems, elevators and Smart meters.
 Real time OS- airline traffic control systems, Command Control Systems, airline reservation systems, Heart pacemakers, Network Multimedia Systems, robots
 desktop OS server machine OS- Windows, macOS, Linux
*Functions of OS- Memory Management, Process Management, Device Management, Security, Error Detection, etc
*KERNEL MODE- Kernel mode is also known as the master mode, privileged mode, or system mode,  all processes share a single virtual address space.
 USER MODE-  User mode is also known as the unprivileged mode, restricted mode, or slave mode,  all processes get separate virtual address space. 
*Interrupt & System Call- A system call is a call from user mode to kernel mode

2.Intro to Linux
*Working basics of file system- Linux file system is generally a built-in layer of a Linux operating system used to handle the data management of the storage. It helps to arrange the file on the disk storage. It manages the file name, file size, creation date, and much more information about a file.
*Commands- ls: List the contents of a directory.
           cp: Copy a file from one location to another
           rm: Remove a file or directory from the system
           rmdir: remove directory
           mkdir: make directory
           cat filename: View content
           touch filename: create new file
           cd: Change the current working directory
           chmod new_permissions file_name: change file permissions
*PS1- Primary Command Prompt(export)
 PS2- Secondary Command Prompt


3.Shell Programming
*Shell- SHELL is a program which provides the interface between the user and an operating system. When the user logs in OS starts a shell for user.
 Types- Bourne Shell (sh), GNU Bourne-Again Shell (bash), C Shell (csh), Korn Shell (ksh), Z Shell (zsh)
*echo- to dissplay massege or variable on the screen.

4.Processes
*Process: It is a basically program execution.
 Preemtive: Preemptive scheduling is a method that may be used when a process switches from a running state to a ready state or from a waiting state to a ready state.
 Non-Preemtive: Non-preemptive scheduling is a method that may be used when a process terminates or switches from a running to a waiting state.
*Process Management: Process management refers to the activities involved in managing the execution of multiple processes in an operating system. It includes creating, scheduling, and terminating processes, as 
    well as allocating system resources such as CPU time, memory, and I/O devices.
 Process Life cycle: The different states of the process are start, ready, running, waiting, and terminated.
*Scheduler: The scheduler's purpose is to implement the virtual machine so that each process appears to be running on its own computer to the user.

8.Virtual Memory
*Virtual memory is a common technique used in a computer's operating system (OS). Virtual memory uses both hardware and software to enable a computer to compensate for physical memory shortages, temporarily transferring data from random access memory (RAM) to disk storage.
*Demand paging: Demand paging is a technique used in virtual memory systems where pages enter main memory only when requested or needed by the CPU. In demand paging, the operating system loads only the necessary pages of a program into memory at runtime, instead of loading the entire program into memory at the start.
*Page Fault: A page fault occurs when a program attempts to access a block of memory that is not stored in the physical memory, or RAM. The fault notifies the operating system that it must locate the data in virtual memory, then transfer it from the storage device, such as an HDD or SSD, to the system RAM
*Page Replacement algorithm: FIFO, LRU(Least Recentely used), MRU(Most Recentely Used)


A) Operating System Topics
  1. Introduction to OS
  2. Introduction to Linux
  3. Shell Programming
  4. Processes
  5. Signals
  6. Threads
  7. Memory Management
  8. Virtual Memory
  9. DeadLock
  10.Inter Process Communication


Answers of Question Paper(OS)
1. D
2. C
3. A
4. D
5. D
6. D
7. A
8. 
9. A
10.A
11.D
12.C
13.C
14.C
15.
16.B
17.A
18.A
19.A
20.A
21.B
22.B
23.B
24.D
25.A
26.C
27.
28.D
29.A
30.
31.B
32.
33.A
34.A
35.A
36.C
37.C
38.B
39.
40.



Imp:
#Memory Allocation Strategies
A)Contiguous Memory Allocation:
1) First Fit
The first-fit algorithm searches for the first free partition that is large enough to accommodate the process. The operating system starts searching from the beginning of the memory and allocates the first free partition that is large enough to fit the process.
For example, suppose we have the following memory partitions:
| 10 KB | 20 KB | 15 KB | 25 KB | 30 KB |
Now, a process requests 18 KB of memory. The operating system starts searching from the beginning and finds the first free partition of 20 KB. It allocates the process to that partition and keeps the remaining 2 KB as free memory.

2) Best Fit
The best-fit algorithm searches for the smallest free partition that is large enough to accommodate the process. The operating system searches the entire memory and selects the free partition that is closest in size to the process.
For example, suppose we have the following memory partitions:
| 10 KB | 20 KB | 15 KB | 25 KB | 30 KB |
Now, a process requests 18 KB of memory. The operating system searches for the smallest free partition that is larger than 18 KB, and it finds the partition of 20 KB. It allocates the process to that partition and keeps the remaining 2 KB as free memory.

3) Worst Fit
The worst-fit algorithm searches for the largest free partition and allocates the process to it. This algorithm is designed to leave the largest possible free partition for future use.
For example, suppose we have the following memory partitions:
| 10 KB | 20 KB | 15 KB | 25 KB | 30 KB |
Now, a process requests 18 KB of memory. The operating system searches for the largest free partition, which is 30 KB. It allocates the process to that partition and keeps the remaining 12 KB as free memory.

#Types Of Processes:
1. *Parent Process
   *Child Process
2. *ForeGround Process
   *BackGround Process
3. *Interactive Process
   *Non-Interactive Process
4. *Zombie Process 
   *Orphan Process
   *Daemon Process

#Exec() Family
1.execv: Program arguments passed as an array of strings --> int execv( const char *path, char *const argv[] );
2.execvp: Searches for the program name in the PATH environment  --> int execvp( const char *file, char *const argv[] );
3.execl: Program arguments passed directly as a list --> int execl( const char *path, const char *arg, ... );
4.execlp: Searches for the program name in the PATH environment --> int execlp( const char *file, const char *arg, ... ); 

#Schedular
1.Long term ( Job Scheduler)
2.Medium term ( swapping scheduler)
3.Short term (CPU scheduler)

#Algorithms
1.FCFS (First Come First Served)
2.SJF (Shortest Job First)
3.Priority
4.RR (Round Robin)

#Address Binding
1.Compile time
2.Load time
3.Execution time

#Memory Allocation Techniques
A)Contiguous
  1.Fixed Partition Scheme: Number of Partitions are fixed & size may or may not be same. Types-->(1)Equal (2)Unequal
  2.Variable Partition Scheme: Number of Partitions are not fixed and Size of partition is same before incoming & varies after process.
B)Non-Contiguous
  1.Paging
  2.Segmentation

#FIFO (First In First Out)
1. Hit ratio
2. Miss Ratio

##Deadlock: When a waiting process requested is never again able to change state because the resource is held by other waiting process. This situation is Deadlock.
  *Two types – (a) preemptable  (b) non-premptable
  *Sequence of events : (a) Request resource   (b) Use resource   (c) release resource
  *Conditions: (a) Mutual exclusion condition: Spool everything
               (b) Hold and wait condition: Request all resources initially  
               (c) No preemption condition: Take resources away  
               (d) Circular wait condition: Order resources numerically 
  *Handling Deadlocks: (a) Ignorance  (b) Prevention  (c) Avoidance  (d) Detection and recovery
  *DeadLock Avoidance: (a) Safe State
                       (b) Unsafe State

#Signals: (a)SIGINT: Interrupt from keyboard(ctrl-c)
          (b)SIGKILL: Kill Program (cannot override or ignore)
          (c)SIGSEGV: Segmentation violation
          (d)SIGALRM: Timer signal
          (e)SIGCHLD: Child stopped & terminated

#Threads: (a) User Level: Faster  (b) Kernel Level: Slower
 *MultiThreading: 1.OneToOne: Windows NT, Linux
                  2.ManyToOne: Solaris Green Threads and GNU portable threads
                  3.ManyToMany: Solaris prior to ver 9 and Windows 2000

#Pipe: A pipe is a data channel that is unidirectional. (Write-end & Read-end) Types: (a)Ordinary (b)Named



##SDM
Git: 	
1.It is a Version control system
2.Linus Torvalds created Git.
3.Purpose: To track changes in code file
4.Benifit:  It facilitates collaboration among team members and tracks code changes.
5.Git new Repository: -"git init" for create new repository.
                      -A Collection of code files & their complete history of changes.
                      -It stores the complete history of changes to the code.
6.".git" folder purpose: To store metadata and configuration files for the repository.
7. It creates a commit object that represents the change and adds it to the repository's history.

####-SDM
1.
*code version control(source control): It is the practice of tracking and managing changes to software code.(Git-distributed, Subversion(SVN)- ease of use and integration with the Windows 
operating system and uses client-server architecture, Mercurial- written in Python and is designed to be lightweight and fast, CVS, AWS)
*Software Development Workflow-(Agile- Continuous feedback and adaptation, Scrum- Incremental development and frequent releases, Kanban)
*Git(Linus Torvalds): Version Control System used to track changes in code files(git init- new repository, git add- add changes)

2.
Software Engineering: The application of engineering principles to build software products, to produce high-quality software, 
Software Process: The step-by-step plan for building software products(Planning, Execution, and Maintenance)
Software Process Model: Waterfall- It provides a clear and structured approach, V, Incremental, RAD(Rapid Application Development), Agile, Iterative, Spiral, Prototype
Software Product: The end result of the software development process that satisfies user needs
SDLC: framework for managing software development projects(Planning- survey in market, Design-create user interface, coding- writing code, testing, deployment.)
Requirements: Functional, Non-Functional, (Modularity and reusability for good design)
                                          (Complexity and redundancy for Poor Design)
Design & Architecture: Modularity: Breaking the software product into small, independent, and manageable components.
                       Cohesion: Elements close to each other
                       Coupling: A measure of the degree of interaction between software components
                       Layering: hierarchical layers.
Design Model: A diagram or representation that helps visualize the design of the software product(Flowchart)
Programming Principle: KISS-Keep It Simple- Stupid(breaking down a complex problem into smaller, manageable tasks)
                       DRY(Don't Repeat Yourself- (avoid duplication)
                       SRP(Single Responsibility Principle)



























